CITEKEY: brinkmannInventoryRoutingBike2016
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/9JFQBWAN/Brinkmann et al. - 2016 - Inventory routing for bike sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-013
RELATED CE IDS: CE-013
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
318                                   Jan Brinkmann et al. / Transportation Research Procedia 19 (2016) 316 – 327


         This article is structured as follows: In Section 2, we give a literature review of BSS related literature highlighting
      the work considering IPR. In Section 3, the multi-periodic rebalancing problem in BSS is defined. The
      decomposition approach is introduced in Section 4. Computational studies and their results are presented in Section
      5. Finally, a conclusion is drawn in Section 6.

      2. Literature Review

          Generally, the goal is to install and maintain the functionality of a BSS in a cost efficient way (Benchimol et al.,
      2011). This challenge can be handled on several management levels (Vogel, 2016). We first give a brief overview of
      literature on the strategic and tactical management level. Then, we focus on the operational level where we
      distinguish single-periodic and multi-periodic rebalancing.
          On the strategic level, decisions about network design are made. Decisions contain the locations and capacities of
      stations, and adaptions of the according infrastructure as well. Lin and Yang (2011) propose hub models to
      determine locations and sizes of stations, and to identify the need for exclusive bike lanes. García-Palomares et al.
      (2012) implement location allocation models to decide about station locations.
          The tactical management addresses both data analysis and optimization. Request structure analysis has been done
      by Borgnat et al. (2011) and Vogel et al. (2011). Additionally, Vogel et al. (2011) state that stations can be clustered
      according to the request structure. E.g., stations in residential areas are indicated by a relatively high number of
      rental requests and a relatively low number of return requests in the morning. Further, stations in working areas are
      indicated by a relatively low number of rentals and a relatively high number of returns in the morning. In the course
      of the day, the request structure inverts. This behavior exists since BSS are used by commuters. Vogel et al. (2014)
      present a resource allocation problem (RAP) to determine suitable fill levels per station and hour. Here, decisions
      about relocations are made using a transportation model. Thus, routing is simplified by single transportation flows.
      The RAP's objective is to minimize costs for tours, relocations, and unserved requests. It is solved by a hybrid
      metaheuristic. Initial fill levels, expected requests, and claimed relocation transports lead to suitable target fill levels
      for upcoming time periods. These fill levels serve as anticipating input for operational planning. We state that
      request can be served if target fill levels are realized.
          The operational management faces vehicle routing problems with inventory decisions. These problems are well
      known as IRPs (Dror et al., 1985). A comprehensive literature overview on IRPs is presented by Coelho et al.
      (2014). Since in BSS two competing resources have to be balanced, namely bikes and free bike racks, IRPs for BSS
      have to be studied separately. IRPs for BSS differ in objective function and constraints. Here, we further
      differentiate between single-periodic and multi-periodic rebalancing.

      2.1. Single-Periodic Rebalancing

         In single-periodic rebalancing problems, bikes are relocated over night when the system is closed. Requests and
      time-dependent fill levels are not considered. Therefore, the target fill levels represent suitable initial fill levels for
      the next day. Usually, closed tours are generated, i.e., tours start and end at a depot. Chemla et al. (2013) and
      Erdoğan et al. (2015) present problem settings in which a single vehicle has to realize target fill levels. Instead of
      target fill levels, Erdoğan et al. (2014) aim on realizing target intervals. The objectives are to minimize the travel
      distance or time respectively. Raviv et al. (2013) consider a fleet of vehicles and a limited time horizon. A service
      time, i.e., the time a vehicle spends at a station to perform relocation operations, depends on the exact number of
      relocated bikes. Due to the time limit, the realization of all target fill levels may not be possible. The deviation of
      realized fill levels and target fill levels is called gap. The objective is to minimize the overall gap, the total travel
      time, and service times. Two models using arc-index and time-index formulation are defined. Similar problem
      settings are introduced by Di Gaspero et al. (2013), Rainer-Harbach et al. (2013), and Papazek et al. (2014). The
      objectives are the minimization of gaps, the total time for traveling, and the number of relocation operations. The
      authors consider static service times which represent the expected time to perform relocation operations. Di Gaspero
      et al. (2013) implemente constraint programming and ant colony optimization. Rainer-Harbach et al. (2013) apply
      variable neighborhood search (VNS) while Papazek et al. (2014) use a hybrid greedy randomized adaptive search
      approach (GRASP) combined with path relinking.
