CITEKEY: brinkmannInventoryRoutingBike2016
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/9JFQBWAN/Brinkmann et al. - 2016 - Inventory routing for bike sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: 316
SECTION: Abstract
RELATED CE IDS: CE-007, CE-013
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
                           Jan Brinkmann et al. / Transportation Research Procedia 19 (2016) 316 – 327                    317


1. Introduction

    Cities deal with a large volume of traffic resulting in traffic jams and environmental pollution, e.g., noise and
carbon dioxide emission. One approach to tackle these inconveniences is the use of public bike sharing systems
(BSS, Büttner et al., 2011). Most BSS consist of stations, where users can rent and return bikes ad hoc. Further,
station-less systems exist, where bikes are parked anywhere in the city center while they are not rented (Shaheen et
al., 2010). Regarding rental requests, station-based systems seem to be advantageous since users can always rent
bikes at the same stations according to their habits. In station-less systems, every time a user wants to rent a bike, the
nearest bike has to be located, e.g., via smart phone app. Regarding return requests, station-less systems seem to be
advantageous since users can return bikes almost anywhere. In station-based systems, bikes have to be returned at
stations.
    To ensure that users can rent and return bikes anytime at any place, providers aim to provide sufficient numbers
of bikes and free bike racks at all stations throughout the day in a cost efficient manner. Here, providers face several
challenges. Due to the short trip duration, requests are uncertain. Further, bikes are not returned at the station they
have been rented at and so stations may tend to either run full or out of bikes. Moreover, the structure of user request
is subject to spatio-temporal variation. Thus, the request behavior for every station differs in the course of the day.
To satisfy as many requests as possible, the BSS has to be designed and maintained to match these challenges.
    For station-based BSS, the challenges can be proceed on the strategical (long-term), tactical (mid-term), and
operational (short-term) management levels (Vogel, 2016). The strategic management decides about locations and
capacities of stations. On the tactical level, optimal fill levels for each station and for (hourly) periods throughout the
day are determined by analyzing recorded data on single trips. Each trip consists of a rental and a return request. For
each request, the associated station and the time it takes place are given. The determined fill levels anticipate typical
user behavior and serve as input for operational planning. To realize these target fill levels, we distinguish two
options. An indirect option focuses on user-based relocation of bikes initiated by financial incentives. Here, users are
granted a price reduction if they rent or return a bike in a defined area or at a defined station respectively (Ruch et
al., 2014). A direct option draws on vehicles which are routed between stations to pick up and deliver bikes
(Shaheen et al., 2010). We state the direct option suits station-based BSS well since stations allow relocating bulks
of bikes with only one stop. In a station-less system, vehicles would have to stop for every bike to pick up. Thus, we
assume vehicles in a station-based system to allow most efficient relocations to realize target fill levels.
Nevertheless, ͵ͲΨ of the running costs (between 1,500 and 2,500€ per bike and year) are caused by relocations
(Büttner et al., 2011). Thus, providers aim for efficient relocations. If not stated otherwise, from here on we focus on
station-based BSS and direct relocations.
    The target fill levels are real-valued and, therefore, not suitable for operation planning. Hence, fill levels are
enlarged to fill intervals with integer bounds. Generally, not every target interval can be realized due to capacity and
time constraints. The resulting deviations of realized fill levels and given target intervals are called gaps. We assume
a high probability of unsatisfied rental or return requests in the presence of large gaps. Thus, the objective is to
minimize the squared gaps over all stations. Then, large gaps are mostly avoided while small gaps are allowed.
    In this article, we model the problem on realizing target intervals as a multi-periodic inventory routing problem
(IRP). Within each period, decisions considering the served stations, the amount of transported bikes, and the
according vehicle routing have to be made. For this problem, decisions impact the current and following periods.
Due to the interval representation of fill levels, the model allows stations to be both source and sink, and even
balanced stations to be used to reduce gaps of adjacent stations. Since this rich IRP cannot be solved to optimality
within reasonable time, we apply a temporal and spatial decomposition approach. Temporal decomposition is
applied using a rolling horizon, i.e., time periods are solved independently. Within each period, a spatial
decomposition is applied. To this end, the set of stations is partitioned into disjoint subsets. Efficient subsets
consider both short distances between stations and a balance in bike surpluses and shortages. The subsets are
assigned to vehicles and evaluated by a cost-benefit routing algorithm. We test the approach with real-world data
from Vienna's BSS "CityBike Wien" operating on 59 stations. The required target fill levels are provided by Vogel
et al. (2014). We examine the results regarding the search operators, the local search algorithms, and the number of
vehicles. Our results depict, that our approach offers suitable subsets where the target intervals can mostly be
realized. Only in the rush hour a few stations remain imbalanced.
