CITEKEY: demaioBikesharingHistoryImpacts2009
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/N9GV5YKS/DeMaio - 2009 - Bike-sharing history, impacts, models of provision, and future.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: 41
SECTION: Introduction
RELATED CE IDS: CE-002
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Journal of Public Transportation, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2009



examination of models of provision with benefits and detriments of each, exam-
ines capital and operating expenses, and concludes with a look into the future
of bike-sharing through a discussion about what a 4th generation bike-sharing
program could be.


History of Bike-sharing
There have been three generations of bike-sharing systems over the past 45 years
(DeMaio 2003, 2004). The 1st generation of bike-sharing programs began on July
28, 1965, in Amsterdam with the Witte Fietsen, or White Bikes (Schimmelpennick
2009). Ordinary bikes, painted white, were provided for public use. One could find
a bike, ride it to his or her destination, and leave it for the next user. Things did not
go as planned, as bikes were thrown into the canals or appropriated for private use.
The program collapsed within days.
In 1991, a 2nd generation of bike-sharing program was born in Farsø and Grenå,
Denmark, and in 1993 in Nakskov, Denmark (Nielse 1993). These programs were
small; Nakskov had 26 bikes at 4 stations. It was not until 1995 that the first
large-scale 2nd generation bike-sharing program was launched in Copenhagen as
Bycyklen, or City Bikes, with many improvements over the previous generation.
The Copenhagen bikes were specially designed for intense utilitarian use with
solid rubber tires and wheels with advertising plates, and could be picked up and
returned at specific locations throughout the central city with a coin deposit.
While more formalized than the previous generation, with stations and a non-
profit organization to operate the program, the bikes still experienced theft due to
the anonymity of the user. This gave rise to a new generation of bike-sharing with
improved customer tracking.
The first of this new breed of 3rd generation bike-sharing programs was Bikeabout
in 1996 at Portsmouth University in England, where students could use a magnetic
stripe card to rent a bike (Black and Potter undated). This and the following 3rd
generation of bike-sharing systems were smartened with a variety of technologi-
cal improvements, including electronically-locking racks or bike locks, telecom-
munication systems, smartcards and fobs, mobile phone access, and on-board
computers.
Bike-sharing grew slowly in the following years, with one or two new programs
launching annually, such as Rennes’ (France) Vélo à la Carte in 1998 and Munich’s
Call a Bike in 2000, but it was not until 2005 when 3rd generation bike-sharing

42
