CITEKEY: forma3stepMathHeuristic2015
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/BNZBQK4T/Forma et al. - 2015 - A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem in bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 3
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 4
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-026
RELATED CE IDS: CE-026
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
                                     I.A. Forma et al. / Transportation Research Part B 71 (2015) 230–247                      233


    Dynamic repositioning is much more intricate to manage because it incorporates a scheduling component derived from
the users’ activity during the operation, together with a routing component. Contardo et al. (2012) assume dynamic
deterministic demand and formulate an optimization model to route a single vehicle that moves bicycles between stations
so as to minimize the number of shortage events. They propose a decomposition scheme that allows obtaining a solution
with a reasonable optimality gap for instances with up 100 stations and 60 discretized periods, in ten minutes. Pessach
et al. (2014) use a formulation that is similar to the time-indexed formulation of Raviv et al. (2013) within a rolling horizon
framework in order to heuristically solve the actual stochastic and dynamic repositioning problem. Their method was shown
to outperform a variety of heuristic method based on dispatching rules, including some of those used by practitioners.
Chemla et al. (2013b) and Pfrommer et al. (2014) propose methods for dynamic rebalancing of the system that utilize both
pricing incentives and repositioning. Kloimüllner et al. (2014) suggest solving the dynamic balancing problem by greedy and
PILOT construction heuristics, as well as variable neighborhood search and GRASP improvement heuristics.
    As mentioned above, Schuijbroek et al. (2013) present a heuristic algorithm to the repositioning (rebalancing) problem
that can be classiﬁed as a cluster-ﬁrst route-second approach, which is a quite prevalent approach in solving various
multi-vehicle routing problems. It is based on the idea of building clusters of nodes/customers ﬁrst, and then solving a series
of independent single-vehicle TSP (or other routing) problems, one for each cluster. Early algorithms in this class include, for
example, the sweep heuristic by Gillett and Miller (1974) and the well-known heuristic of Fisher and Jaikumar (1981), which
uses the generalized assignment problem to create the clusters. A review of classical heuristics approaches can be found in
Laporte and Semet (2002).
    While our heuristic also builds clusters ﬁrst and then constructs routes, it is quite different from the above literature. The
main difference is that a vehicle/route according to our approach travels through a sequence of clusters, whereas a vehicle/
route according to the cluster-ﬁrst route-second approach travels through a single cluster. The purpose of creating clusters in
our heuristic is to reduce the network size, so that routing of multiple vehicles can be performed on the reduced network; in
the cluster-ﬁrst route-second approach, the clusters are created in order to decompose the network so that a single vehicle
serves each of them. We are not aware of other heuristic approaches that similarly to ours, reduce the network size in such a
manner.
    Battarra et al. (2014) studied the clustered vehicle routing problem (CluVRP), where the customers are clustered into pre-
deﬁned clusters, so that a vehicle visiting one customer in the cluster must visit all the remaining customers in the cluster
before leaving it. Although this is similar to our heuristic in the fact that a vehicle visits several clusters, there are two main
differences between the routing decisions of the CluVRP problem and ours: (i) in the CluVRP problem, the clusters of cus-
tomers are given as part of the problem’s input, while in our problem they are created as part of the solution procedure
in order to reduce the complexity of the problem; (ii) in the CluVRP problem, all nodes must be visited, while in our problem
it is not a requirement; Other differences between the problems clearly exist, as the operation performed in our reposition-
ing problem is quite more involved than supplying a given quantity to the customers, as in the CluVRP. Baldacci et al. (2010)
introduce the generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP), in which the clusters are also pre-deﬁned. Each customer has a
non-negative demand and a given number of vehicles must visit exactly one customer per cluster, such that the total cost
is minimized, and the routes obey capacity and time constraints. It is demonstrated that the GVRP provides a useful
modeling framework for a wide variety of routing applications.
    In conclusion, our 3-step algorithm advances the literature on repositioning problems and forms a practical approach for
medium-large bike-sharing systems. Moreover, it presents a new type of decomposition method for a variety of vehicle
routing and inventory routing problems.


3. Problem deﬁnition

   The SBRP addressed in this paper was ﬁrst introduced by Raviv et al. (2013). For the sake of completeness we restate this
problem here. Their arc-indexed formulation, which is used in this paper, is given in Appendix A.
   The input of the SBRP consists of a set of stations, N, and a depot where all the repositioning vehicles are initially located.
The set of the stations and the depot together are referred to as N0 where the depot is indexed by 0. Each station i e N is char-
acterized by:

  Capacity ci, which is the maximum possible number of bicycles that it may store.
  Initial bicycle inventory, s0i .
  Penalty function, fi(s), which represents the expected shortage of bicycles and lockers incurred by users in the station dur-
   ing the next day as a function of the inventory at the station after the repositioning is carried out. Let fi(s) = 1 for values
   out of the domain {0, . . ., ci}. Raviv and Kolka (2013) show how to calculate this function based on a demand forecast for
   the station and prove its convexity. However any penalty function can be used as long as it is convex and separable
   between stations.

   The depot may have its own capacity and initial inventory but these are typically assumed to be non-binding. The depot
faces no demand and hence incurs no penalty.
