CITEKEY: forma3stepMathHeuristic2015
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/BNZBQK4T/Forma et al. - 2015 - A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem in bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: 230
SECTION: Abstract
RELATED CE IDS: CE-015, CE-027
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
                                     I.A. Forma et al. / Transportation Research Part B 71 (2015) 230–247                      231


as dynamic repositioning and when it is carried out during the night when the demand for bicycles is negligible it is referred
to as static repositioning.
    In this paper we consider the static repositioning problem (SBRP), as deﬁned in Raviv et al. (2013). In particular, the goal is
to minimize a weighted sum of the expected number of unserved users (due to shortage of both bicycles and lockers) during
the next working day, and the total traveling distance. The planning horizon of the repositioning operation is limited in time,
typically ﬁve to six hours, to reﬂect the fact that it should be completed before dawn. Loading and unloading times of
bicycles at the stations are taken into account; in practice, the loading and unloading operation amounts to most of the
working time of the repositioning crew. Raviv et al. (2013) propose several Mixed Integer Linear Program formulations
for the SBRP. Their numerical experiment shows that the formulation referred to as the arc-indexed (AI) is very effective
for solving real life instances with up to 100 stations and two repositioning vehicles. In this paper we propose a 3-step math
heuristic that is based on a new clustering concept and on the AI formulation. We show that our heuristic produces solutions
with small optimality gaps for large instances.
    In the ﬁrst step of our heuristic, stations are clustered according to geographic as well as inventory (of bicycles) consid-
erations. In the second step the repositioning vehicles are routed through the clusters while tentative inventory decisions are
made for each individual station. Finally, in the third step the exact routing of the repositioning vehicles is determined, along
with the (possibly revised) number of bicycles to be loaded and unloaded at each station. The routing decisions are subject to
restrictions imposed by the solution of the previous step.
    The goal of the ﬁrst step is to create clusters of stations that are geographically close together and that are likely to be
visited successively within the same route. Moreover, they are formed such that their requirements for loading and
unloading bicycles are complementary. The purpose of the second step is to determine the set of clusters that are visited
by each repositioning vehicle and the sequence in which they are visited. These routing decisions are made together with
some preliminary inventory decisions that take into consideration the time needed for the loading and unloading operations.
These inventory decisions are subject to reﬁnement in the third step, in which the original repositioning problem is solved
with restrictions on the traversal of the repositioning vehicles. Namely, traversal is allowed only between stations that
belong to consecutive clusters according to the routes determined in the previous step, or between stations of the same clus-
ter. Since in this step the assignment of stations to repositioning vehicles is already ﬁxed, the repositioning problem is solved
for each vehicle separately. The last two steps are formulated as Mixed Integer Linear Programs that are similar to the AI
formulation introduced in Raviv et al. (2013), and solved using a commercial solver.
    The applicability of the proposed method is numerically demonstrated by solving a variety of instances that are based on
real data. The results indicate that near optimal solutions of real life instances with up to 200 stations and three repositioning
vehicles can be obtained. These results signiﬁcantly outperform the results of applying the AI formulation on the original
problem, in the same computational environment.
    The contribution of this paper is in presenting a successful math-heuristic solution method to the SBRP, which is suitable
for large real life instances of the problem. Although our heuristic is based on decomposing the problem into smaller
sub-problems that are solved separately, our method is quite different from typical clustering approaches known in the lit-
erature for vehicle routing problems, see Section 2. We believe that our new decomposition approach may be useful for other
rich vehicle routing problems.
    The rest of the paper is organized as follows: in Section 2, we review the literature, describing related work from several
application areas. In Section 3, we formally state the SBRP and present some notation. In Section 4, we present our algorithm
in detail, where a separate sub-section is dedicated to each of its three steps. In Section 5, we describe our numerical exper-
iments, the results, and their analysis. Finally, in Section 6, we conclude and discuss possible extensions and directions for
further research.


2. Literature review

   Bike sharing systems rapidly gained popularity during the last decade, ﬁrst in West Europe and East Asia and more
recently in North America. DeMaio and Meddin (2014) maintain a geographical database that describes the location and
the characteristic of all public bike-sharing systems around the world. Larsen (2013) reports that as of April 2013 more than
500 cities host advanced bike-sharing systems with a combined ﬂeet of more than half a million bicycles. Many cities are in
the process of planning and deploying new systems or extending existing ones.
   Design and operation of bike sharing systems raised a set of new interesting problems to be addressed. First, the extent
and the nature of the demand of a new bike-sharing system should be forecasted. Then, some strategic problems need to be
addressed. These include the coverage, capacity and density of the system. Next, the actual location of the stations and their
capacity should be designed. At a more tactical level, pricing and reservation policies should be determined by the operator.
Finally, the day-to-day operation of the system requires rebalancing the system continuously in order to meet the demand
for bicycles and vacant lockers at the location and times desired by the users. While practitioners in the bike-sharing indus-
try are already dealing with these challenging problems, with various levels of success, the scientiﬁc literature on the above
topics is still relatively sparse. Below we describe the state of the art in the scientiﬁc literature.
   Several studies try to estimate and forecast the demand in existing bike-sharing systems using data mining and classical
empirical methodologies. For some examples see Kaltenbrunner et al. (2010), Vogel et al. (2011), Côme et al. (2013) and
