CITEKEY: forma3stepMathHeuristic2015
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/BNZBQK4T/Forma et al. - 2015 - A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem in bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 4
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 5
PRINTED PAGE: 233
SECTION: Literature review / methodology overview
RELATED CE IDS: CE-026
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
234                                    I.A. Forma et al. / Transportation Research Part B 71 (2015) 230–247


      In addition, the input consists of:

  A set of vehicles V. Each vehicle has capacity kv.
  The total time allocated for static repositioning, T. Typically, 5–6 h during the night.
  The time L (resp., U) needed for the loading (resp., unloading) operation of each bicycle to (resp., from) the vehicle,
   typically 1–2 min.
  Vehicle driving time matrix, with elements tij between each pair of stations i and j, including the depot.
  A weight, a, of the travel cost per time unit in the objective function. Without loss of generality, the weight of the
   expected number of unserved users in the objective function is set to one.

   In particular, the goal is to minimize a weighted sum of the expected number of unserved users (due to shortage of both
bicycles and lockers) during the next working day, and the total traveling distance. A solution of the problem constitute a
route for each vehicle that starts and ends at the depot, along with decisions on the number of bicycles to load/unload at
each station along the route, while satisfying the time constraint. The objective is to minimize a weighted sum of the penalty
function over all stations and the total travel cost of all the vehicles.
                                                                             P
   Let si be the inventory level at station i that minimizes fi(s). Clearly, i f i ðsi Þ is a lower bound on the value of the objective
function of the above problem. We refer to si as the ideal inventory level of station i and to a solution that achieves the ideal
inventory level at all stations as an ideal solution. Due to the time limitation, T, it is generally infeasible to achieve an ideal
solution. Moreover, even if an ideal solution is feasible, it is generally sub-optimal due to the travel cost component in the
objective function. Therefore, in general, the optimal solution differs from the ideal solution.

4. A 3-step heuristic approach

    Our proposed algorithm is composed of three steps: ﬁrst, stations are clustered according to geographic and inventory
considerations. Then, the vehicles are routed through the clusters while inventory decisions are made for each individual
station separately. Finally, the original static repositioning problem is solved for all stations, but traversal of the vehicles
is allowed only between stations of the same cluster or stations that belong to two consecutive clusters, according to the
decisions made in the previous step. These steps are described next.
    In this section we use the following deﬁnitions: Given a cluster of stations I, let its initial inventory, denoted by S0I , be the
sum of its stations’ initial inventories (i.e., before repositioning), and its capacity, denoted by CI, be the sum of its stations’
capacities. That is:
                 X
         S0I ¼    s0i                                                                                                                ð1Þ
                 i2I
              X
         CI ¼  ci                                                                                                                    ð2Þ
                 i2I


4.1. Step 1: A saving heuristic for building the clusters

    The purpose of the ﬁrst step is to create clusters of stations in order to solve a repositioning problem on the reduced net-
work, whose nodes would refer to clusters. Each cluster may include several stations, although a cluster of a single station is
also possible.
    To create clusters such that the repositioning solution on the reduced network will serve the objective of the original
problem, two issues need to be considered: the geographic location and the initial inventory. Since in the next steps of
the algorithm, the stations are visited cluster by cluster, we would like the stations in a given cluster to be geographically
close to each other. Therefore, we limit the diameter of each cluster, i.e., the maximal distance (in terms of travel time)
between stations that belong to the cluster. The maximal diameter allowed is denoted by D. Since as D decreases, we expect
the number of clusters to increase, the value of D is determined to be as low as possible such that the repositioning problem
on the reduced network can still be solved in Step 2 in a reasonable amount of time.
    The second issue to consider is the initial inventory of the clusters, which determine their costs. We deﬁne the total cost
of a cluster, FI(S), as the expected number of shortages that will be incurred in its stations when an inventory of S bicycles is
arranged in the stations of cluster I in the best possible way, i.e., so as to minimize the sum of the expected number of short-
ages in all of its stations. This deﬁnition is motivated by the fact that the stations of a cluster are visited by the same vehicle,
which can easily transfer bicycles between them. For example, if we include in a certain cluster only stations in which the
inventory level is lower than their ideal levels, transferring bicycles between these stations can not improve the service pro-
vided by these stations signiﬁcantly. On the other hand, if the inventory of some stations is higher than their ideal level, and
of others is lower, then transferring bicycles between stations within this cluster can be more beneﬁcial. In the former (lat-
ter) case the cluster’s cost would be high (low).
    FI(S) is formally deﬁned by the following mathematical program:
                      X
         F I ðSÞ ¼ min f i ðsi Þ                                                                                                     ð3Þ
                       si :i2I
                                 i2I
