CITEKEY: forma3stepMathHeuristic2015
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/BNZBQK4T/Forma et al. - 2015 - A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem in bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 0
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 1
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-027
RELATED CE IDS: CE-027
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        Transportation Research Part B 71 (2015) 230–247



                                                         Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                               Transportation Research Part B
                                            journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/trb




A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem
in bike-sharing systems
Iris A. Forma a,b, Tal Raviv a,⇑, Michal Tzur a
a
    Industrial Engineering Department, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, 6997801, Israel
b
    Afeka College of Engineering, Bnei Ephraim 218, Tel Aviv, 6910717, Israel



a r t i c l e           i n f o                          a b s t r a c t

Article history:                                         Over the last few years, bike-sharing systems have emerged as a new mode of transporta-
Received 12 July 2014                                    tion in a large number of big cities worldwide. This new type of mobility mode is still
Received in revised form 6 October 2014                  developing, and many challenges associated with its operation are not well addressed
Accepted 7 October 2014
                                                         yet. One such major challenge of bike-sharing systems is the need to respond to ﬂuctuating
Available online 1 December 2014
                                                         demands for bicycles and for vacant lockers at each station, which directly inﬂuences the
                                                         service level provided to its users. This is done using dedicated repositioning vehicles (light
Keywords:
                                                         trucks) that are routed through the stations, loading and unloading bicycles to/from them.
Bike sharing systems
Math heuristics
                                                         Performing this operation during the night when the demand in the system is negligible is
Vehicle routing                                          referred to as the static repositioning problem. In this paper, we propose a 3-step mathemat-
                                                         ical programming based heuristic for the static repositioning problem. In the ﬁrst step,
                                                         stations are clustered according to geographic as well as inventory (of bicycles) consider-
                                                         ations. In the second step the repositioning vehicles are routed through the clusters while
                                                         tentative inventory decisions are made for each individual station. Finally, the original
                                                         repositioning problem is solved with the restriction that traversal of the repositioning vehi-
                                                         cles is allowed only between stations that belong to consecutive clusters according to the
                                                         routes determined in the previous step, or between stations of the same cluster. In the ﬁrst
                                                         step the clusters are formed using a specialized saving heuristic. The last two steps are for-
                                                         mulated as Mixed Integer Linear Programs and solved by a commercial solver. The method
                                                         was tested on instances of up to 200 stations and three repositioning vehicles, and was
                                                         shown to outperform a previous method suggested in the literature for the same problem.
                                                                                                                 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.




1. Introduction

   Bike-sharing systems offer a low cost and environmentally friendly mean of transportation for short travels. It can also be
used as a complementary mode to other public transit such as buses, trams or subways. In order to provide high quality
service, bicycles and vacant lockers should be available to the users of these systems when and where they are demanded.
This can be achieved by repositioning the bicycles in the system according to forecasted demand rates for bicycles and lockers
at the stations, using a dedicated ﬂeet of light trucks. These trucks, referred to as repositioning vehicles, travel among the
stations, where bicycles are loaded or unloaded subject to bicycle availability and capacity limitations at the repositioning
vehicles and at the stations. When the repositioning is carried out during the day when the system is active, it is referred to



    ⇑ Corresponding author.
      E-mail addresses: irisf@afeka.ac.il (I.A. Forma), talraviv@eng.tau.ac.il (T. Raviv), tzur@eng.tau.ac.il (M. Tzur).

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2014.10.003
0191-2615/ 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
