CITEKEY: forma3stepMathHeuristic2015
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/BNZBQK4T/Forma et al. - 2015 - A 3-step math heuristic for the static repositioning problem in bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-027
RELATED CE IDS: CE-027
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
232                                  I.A. Forma et al. / Transportation Research Part B 71 (2015) 230–247


Rudloff and Lackner (2014). Lin and Yang (2011) address the combined problem of selecting optimal locations for bike-shar-
ing stations and designing the bicycle paths network in a city so as to minimize the total travel costs of all users in the city.
Romero et al. (2012) propose a bi-level optimization model for the optimal location of bike-sharing stations where the goal is
to maximize the number of travelers that use the system. Chow and Sayarshad (2014) proposed a new framework to design
transportation networks in the presence of coexisting networks. The framework was applied to a bike-sharing system in the
presence of a coexisting transit system and was shown to result in a capacitated multicommodity ﬂow problem. Shu et al.
(2005) study the design and management of a stochastic vehicle-sharing system. Shu et al. (2013) develop a network ﬂow
model for a system in which the ﬂow is determined by the random demand of the travelers. They examine the effect of redis-
tribution of bicycles in the network and the capacity of the stations on the ﬂow in the system. Nair et al. (2013) studied the
Vélib’ system in Paris from several aspects, including system characteristics, utilization patterns, the connection between
public transit and bicycle-sharing systems, and ﬂow imbalances between stations. Rudloff and Lackner (2014) build a sta-
tistical model for the demand for bikes and lockers by studying the inﬂuence of weather and full/empty neighboring stations
on demand.
    In order to cope with the inherent asymmetry and stochasticity of trips in the system, two general methods were pro-
posed for diverting the demand towards more balanced patterns. Waserhole and Jost (2015) present a dynamic pricing
mechanism that forces a balanced demand and hence save the need for repositioning altogether. Such an approach clearly
comes at the cost of reducing the level of service provided to the users of the system but nevertheless seems the only viable
alternative to balancing a car sharing system where repositioning is too expensive. Fricker and Gast (2015) use mean-ﬁeld
approximation to analyze the effect of a simple incentive mechanism on the service provided by the system and the optimal
ﬂeet size. Kaspi et al. (2014a, 2014b) explore operational policies in which the users of the system reserve lockers at the
destination upon the beginning of their journey. Trips can be denied or the destination can be slightly diverted if no vacant
lockers are expected to be available at the true destination.
    Many studies on bike-sharing systems deal with some variants of the static repositioning problem, which is also the topic
of this work. Some authors refer to the same class of problems as rebalancing problems but since, as mentioned above, a
balance in the system can also be achieved by pricing incentives and reservations, we prefer the term repositioning. Note
that the static repositioning problem is not uniquely deﬁned since various studies make different modeling assumptions.
Most of the authors viewed the problem as an extension of the single commodity many-to-many pickup and delivery prob-
lem introduced by Hernández-Pérez and Salazar-González (2004). In particular, most studies consider the total distance
traveled by the repositioning vehicles, as the objective function. Berbeglia et al. (2007) provide a survey and classiﬁcation
of pickup and delivery problems; see also the discussion below regarding the differences between the problem considered
here and pickup and delivery problems.
    Chemla et al. (2013a) propose a math-heuristic for the single vehicle version of the problem, assuming each station can be
visited more than once. Their algorithm is based on a solution of a relaxation of the problem that is solved by a branch-and-
cut procedure. The objective function is to ﬁnd a route that minimizes the total traveling distance. Erdoğan et al. (2013)
extend the pickup and delivery model to allow the ﬁnal inventory at each node to be within a prescribed interval instead
of at a unique level. This model reﬂects the idea that there are some degrees of ﬂexibility in the desired number of bicycles
at each station at the end of the static repositioning operation. They present a branch-and-cut algorithm and a Bender
decomposition that allows solving instances with up to 50 stations. Schuijbroek et al. (2013) study the static repositioning
problem with a service level constraint. Similarly to Erdoğan et al. (2013) they assume that the service level constraint is met
when the desired inventory level at the end of the repositioning operation is within a given interval. They present a queuing
model that allows calculating the required interval given the desired service level. Next, the paper introduces a cluster-ﬁrst
route-second algorithm where the clustering problem is solved by a heuristic that is based on the maximum star approxi-
mation of the TSP. The routing problem of each repositioning vehicle is then formulated as an integer program and solved by
a commercial solver. Rainer-Harbach et al. (2013) and Raidl et al. (2013) present variable neighborhood search heuristics for
a variant of the static repositioning problem that take the loading and unloading times into account.
    Contrary to the approach of all the above studies, we believe that the desired number (or range) of bicycles at the stations
after the static repositioning operation is completed should constitute a soft constraint, expressed as a penalty in the
objective function. From the operator’s point of view, the target inventory levels of bicycles are only idealistic goals to aspire
to.
    Raviv et al. (2013), based on Forma et al. (2010) further extend the many-to-many pickup and delivery problem intro-
duced by Hernández-Pérez and Salazar-González (2004) by including the following characteristics that are not considered
by other studies: (a) the objective function incorporates a service level component directly, that is, the goal is to minimize
a weighted sum of the expected number of un-served users (due to shortage of both bicycles and lockers) during the next
working day, and the total traveling distance. The former part is calculated based on Raviv and Kolka (2013); (b) the planning
horizon of the repositioning operation is limited in time; (c) the loading and unloading times of bicycles at the stations are
taken into account. Near optimal solutions were reported for instances created based on the demand of actual systems with
up to 104 stations and two vehicles, but as shown in this study, this marks the limits of the model size that can be solved
with a reasonable optimality gap subject to a reasonable computing time constraint.
    The solution method presented in this paper is built to solve the problem under the assumptions presented in Raviv et al.
(2013) even though it can be easily adapted to the other optimization models presented in the literature. In the current study
we signiﬁcantly increase the size of the problem instances that can be solved to near optimality.
