CITEKEY: huRepositioningBikeSharing2025
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/2SQ8MACE/Hu et al. - 2025 - Repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken bikes considering on-site repairs.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-032
RELATED CE IDS: CE-032
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
R. Hu et al.                                                                                      Transportation Research Part E 201 (2025) 104155


    Currently, there are two forms of bicycle repositioning: static and dynamic. For the static repositioning, the operation is carried out
throughout the night, assuming that the demand for shared bicycles during that period is negligible. The purpose of this operation is to
rearrange the bicycles to prepare for the next day. In contrast, the dynamic repositioning runs throughout the day and adjusts to the
time-varying demand, and the planned scheme is altered frequently (Forma et al., 2015). These two forms of repositioning have gained
the attention of researchers, and the corresponding static and dynamic BRPs have been well-studied. However, in addition to redis­
tributing shared bikes between stations to meet user demand, the problem arising from broken bikes in BSSs is also non-negligible. For
example, in Barcelona, the operator reported that about 12 % of shared bikes were severely damaged, and about 55 % were lightly
damaged (Castro Fernández, 2011). In New York, 2 % of the total number of bikes in the BSS need major repairs every day (Kaspi et al.,
2016). From users’ perspective, if a broken bike is found when renting a bike, time for seeking another usable bike is required. In a
worse case, when all the bikes located at the station are broken, the users are required to go to another station. Meanwhile, a user may
also encounter all docks being occupied when returning a bike, whereas some parked bikes might be damaged, taking up the space for
returning usable bikes. As Kaspi et al. (2016) pointed out, even if the percentage of damaged bikes in a BSS is small, it can still seriously
affect user satisfaction with the system. The decrease in user satisfaction and confidence in the system may lead to the abandonment of
usage. Therefore, it is necessary to consider handling broken bicycles when solving BRPs.
    There have been a few studies on BRPs with broken bikes, some of which focused on broken bikes only and formulated models for
the optimal routes for broken bike collection (Zhang et al., 2018; Lu et al., 2019, 2022). The remainder considered both broken and
usable bikes and designed the routes of repositioning vehicles and loading instructions for both usable and broken bikes at each station
(Alvarez-Valdes et al., 2016; Chang et al., 2018; Wang and Szeto, 2018, 2021; Du et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020). All these studies on
BRPs with broken bikes assumed that broken bikes were only repaired at depots (representing bike shops or repair centers) and
required to be collected by repositioning trucks first. Nevertheless, in practical operations, broken bicycle repairs are not restricted to
shops or repair centers. They are also conducted in the field by dispatching repairers to the respective locations. According to Citi
Bike’s monthly operating report for June 2024 (Citi Bike, 2024), 21,637 unique bikes were checked or repaired by repairers in depots
or the field during January. On-site repairs by repairers can handle the broken bikes and satisfy the usable bike demand simultaneously
without vehicle repositioning. Therefore, it is essential to determine how to send repairers to the field (i.e., the routes of repairers for
on-site repairs) and how many broken bikes should be handled by each repairer at each visited station in addition to the optimal
strategy combining usable bike repositioning and broken bike collection. To the best of our knowledge, no studies have made such
integration at the time of this writing. Moreover, as discussed above, user dissatisfaction is greatly influenced by the presence of broken
bikes. However, most existing studies focus on minimizing the absolute deviations of the inventories from a desired level or maxi­
mizing the satisfied demand for bikes (Xu et al., 2019; Chang et al., 2021; Wang and Szeto, 2021; Cai et al., 2022), which does not
necessarily lead to the minimized user dissatisfaction. Therefore, it is vital to take user dissatisfaction into account when designing the
optimization objectives.
    As stated above, regular usable bike rebalancing in a BSS is required. However, frequent usable bike rebalancing can significantly
increase the fuel consumption of rebalancing vehicles (Luo et al., 2020), which contradicts the original aim of running a BSS that offers
an eco-friendly mode of transportation. For example, in London, due to the intensive repositioning work, the fossil-fueled vehicle usage
for rebalancing has outweighed the environmental benefit of launching the BSS as the replacement for car trips (Fishman et al., 2014).
Shui and Szeto (2018) pointed out that repositioning plans with long routes or heavy vehicle loads may produce more air pollutants.
The problem is more severe if the collection of broken bikes is included, given that the collected broken bikes have to be carried all the
way and cannot be unloaded until the vehicles arrive at depots. Hence, it is meaningful to take the environmental factors into account
when designing the optimal rebalancing scheme.
    In this paper, we propose a static BRP with broken bikes and on-site repairers. The problem is finding an effective scheme for
repositioning trucks and repairers. This scheme encompasses the routes and the loading/unloading instructions of broken and usable
bikes for the trucks, the routes for the repairers, and the number of broken bikes to be repaired by each repairer at each station. The
objective is to minimize the sum of the penalty costs of the total user dissatisfaction at all stations and the cost of the total CO2
emissions of the trucks. We consider the cost of total CO2 emissions as the environmental objective, as CO2 is one of the most severe
threats to the environment through the greenhouse effect. Using a time-index formulation approach, a Mixed Integer Linear Pro­
gramming (MILP) model is proposed for the problem. To solve the problem efficiently, we propose a hybrid algorithm, abbreviated as
HGSADC-SBC, encapsulating Hybrid Genetic Search with Adaptive Dynamic Control (HGSADC) and a newly proposed Station Budget
Constrained (SBC) heuristic. The algorithmic performance is demonstrated under the scenarios with different network sizes and
numbers of repairers and trucks. Moreover, the cost-effectiveness of introducing a repairer under different repairing times and broken
bike inventory levels was studied on a 15-station instance.
    The contributions of this paper lie in the following:

1. to introduce a new and practical BRP with broken bikes and on-site repairers;
2. to propose a time-indexed MILP model for the problem and solve it;
3. to present new findings and operational insights:
 • We find that long repair times and a low proportion of broken bikes lead to the diminishment of the cost-effectiveness of intro­
   ducing on-site repairers.
 • We demonstrate that the cost-effectiveness of introducing on-site repairers changes dynamically with the proportion of broken
   bikes, indicating the need for adaptable repairer allocation.

    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the literature on BRPs and points out the research gaps.

                                                                     2
