CITEKEY: huRepositioningBikeSharing2025
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/2SQ8MACE/Hu et al. - 2025 - Repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken bikes considering on-site repairs.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 4
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 5
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-035
RELATED CE IDS: CE-035
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
R. Hu et al.                                                                                      Transportation Research Part E 201 (2025) 104155


broken bikes when considering user-oriented objectives. However, this approach assumes that all unmet demand and broken bikes at
every station and at any time have an equal impact on user dissatisfaction, which is not always the case in real-world scenarios. For
some more frequently used stations during peak hours, user dissatisfaction should be more sensitive to unmet demand and unhandled
broken bikes than others, and thus, higher priority should be given to these stations in repositioning. Raviv and Kolka (2013)
introduced a User Dissatisfaction Function (UDF) to measure user dissatisfaction at each station as the expected weighted number of
users who are unable to rent or return a bicycle during a specific period, given an initial inventory at each station. This measurement is
station-based, and it captures both the shortage of bike rent/return demand and the timing of these events. Several subsequent BRP
studies also incorporated the function into their optimization models (Raviv et al., 2013; Ho and Szeto, 2014, 2017; Forma et al., 2015;
Zhang et al., 2017; Chen and Szeto, 2023). To address the limitation of assuming all the bikes are usable, Kaspi (2016) extended the
UDF by considering the presence of broken bikes, creating an Extended User Dissatisfaction Function (EUDF). However, to the best of
our knowledge, apart from the study by Kaspi (2015), which proposed a model to minimize the weighted sum of user dissatisfaction
and routing costs, no other studies on BRPs with broken bikes have utilized the EUDF. Moreover, no study has simultaneously
considered both user dissatisfaction and the cost of total carbon emissions in their models for BRPs with broken bikes, not to mention
the corresponding solution algorithm.
    Concerning the repositioning quantities, a few studies set the number of broken bikes to be handled at each station as decision
variables and minimizing the unhandled broken bikes in the objective (Wang and Szeto, 2018, 2021; Usama et al., 2019; Chang et al.,
2023). Nevertheless, none of these studies considered the effect of broken bikes on occupying the docks, which may lead to a potential
failure in returning shared bicycles.
    This study pioneers in filling these gaps by involving repairer routing and the number of broken bikes assigned for repairs at every
visited station in the optimization model, aiming to minimize the sum of the penalty costs of the total user dissatisfaction at all stations
in the network, and the cost of the total carbon emissions during the repositioning process. To illustrate the practicality and feasibility
of the proposed model, we developed an effective hybrid algorithm called HGSADC-SBC, where HGSADC developed by Vidal et al.
(2012, 2013, 2014) serves as the foundation of our method and has been successfully applied to solve a similar bike repositioning
problem involving multiple bike types by Li et al. (2016). The SBC heuristic, newly proposed in this study, is based on a novel station
budget concept that assigns time at each station by considering the Benefit-Cost Ratio Function (BCRF) for each station in the route.
This allows for a more efficient loading, unloading, and repair quantity assignment across stations in the routes. Note that the model
proposed by Li et al. (2016) focused on a single vehicle and did not consider repairers, so our method also extends it to handle multiple
trucks and repairers.

3. Model formulation

    In this paper, we consider a BSS with one depot and a finite number of stations. Every station has a fixed capacity, an initial in­
ventory of usable bikes, and an initial inventory of broken bikes. The numbers of usable bikes and empty docks at each station are
assumed to be known as the current technology of BSSs provides the system operator with this information in real-time. Moreover, the
number of broken bikes at each station is assumed to be known in this study, as we assume that users report the existence of broken bikes
once they know in the daytime, and we only consider a nighttime bike repositioning problem.
    A fleet of homogeneous repositioning trucks with the same capacity depart from the depot, then travel among selected stations in
the system to deliver usable bikes to visited stations or pick up the usable bikes from visited stations, collect broken bikes at visited
stations, and finally return to the depot to drop off usable and broken bikes within a given time budget. Throughout this process, the
trucks can return to the depot to drop off usable and broken bikes when needed, but the number of bikes carried on each truck cannot
exceed the truck capacity. Meanwhile, a set of repairers also depart from the depot, head to stations with broken bikes to conduct
repairs directly on-site, and return to the depot within the same time budget. Loading, unloading, and repairing each bike take time,
with a constant duration for each operation type. For each repositioning truck, every station and the depot can be visited multiple
times. For each repairer, each station can be visited at most once. A station can be visited by at most one repairer. We assume the depot
holds an infinite inventory of usable bikes and can store an infinite number of usable and broken bikes. Moreover, we assume that the
repairers only repair broken bikes at stations but do not repair broken bikes at the depot. Broken bikes at the depot are repaired by the
repairing staff there but these bikes have no urgency to be repaired within the repositioning period as we assume we have a sufficient
number of usable bikes in the system. Furthermore, we assume that the repairing staff at the depot and the onsite repairers are hired at
fixed daily salary rates. Therefore, the total repair staffing cost is constant daily, which is independent of the number of broken bikes
repaired onsite or sent back to the depot within the repositioning period. In addition, we assume that the repositioning process involves
no rental or returning behaviors from the users, and the final inventories after the repositioning set the starting inventories for the
following day. Additionally, we assume the repairers travel on electric tricycles that generate no emissions during the repositioning
process, and the travel speed of the electric tricycle is proportional to that of a truck. The objective of the BRP is to minimize the cost
consisting of the following components:

    (i) The sum of user dissatisfaction at all stations on the following day and;
   (ii) The CO2 emissions of the repositioning trucks during the rebalancing process.

   Note that the daily repair staffing cost is not included in our optimization objective as it does not affect the optimal repositioning
decisions.
   Fig. 3.1 illustrates an example of the problem. The BSS consists of one depot (represented by a red star and labeled with 0) and ten

                                                                     5
