CITEKEY: jinSimulationFrameworkOptimizing2022
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/DWNF88AJ/Jin et al. - 2022 - A simulation framework for optimizing bike rebalancing and maintenance in large-scale bike-sharing s.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 4
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 5
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-024
RELATED CE IDS: CE-024
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Y. Jin et al.                                                                                   Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory 115 (2022) 102422




                                        Fig. 2. Bike borrowing and returning process with valet service.




                                             Fig. 3. Empirical and fitted trip duration distributions.




are appended with a certain percentage of trips that have not been used for a long time. Kaspi et al. [4] and Jin et al. [9] used a
similar rule. After identifying the failures in the historical trip records, the reliability of a bike can be estimated based on the total
accumulative trip time 𝑡 between two failures using the Kaplan–Meier estimator [43] as:
                     (      )
               ∏         𝑑
        ̂ =
       𝑅(𝑡)           1− 𝑖 ,                                                                                                           (1)
              𝑖∶𝑡 ≤𝑡
                         𝑛𝑖
                𝑖

where 𝑑𝑖 is the number of failures by time 𝑡𝑖 , and 𝑛𝑖 is the total number of observations for 𝑡𝑖 < 𝑡. An example of the estimate based
on the Citi Bike 2019 trip data is shown in Fig. 4.

3.2.2. Bike rebalancing
    For improving the rebalancing efficiency and optimizing the resource allocation, more flexible strategies, such as multiple types
of rebalancing vehicles and dynamic rebalancing, are applied in some BSS [5]. However, the basic model proposed in [9] only
allows static rebalancing at midnight with one type of vehicle. The improved simulation model assumes a fleet of vehicles with
different capacities and travel speeds and allows dynamic rebalancing based on a user-defined schedule.
    The major challenge for accommodating the simulation model to the dynamic rebalancing is the conflict of resources that
arises when assigning the new tasks before the system completes the previous round of rebalancing. Moreover, the system should
continuously update the bike inventory information during the rebalancing to avoid simulation errors when delivering or picking
up bikes. After adding these new features, the improved rebalancing procedure is demonstrated in Fig. 5.
    The depot holds a fleet of idle trucks that will accept new tasks from the rebalancing controller. The vehicles on-route will finish
the current tasks. The rebalancing tasks including (1) the number of vehicles of each type, (2) the route, and (3) the number of
bikes to be loaded/uploaded at each station on the route are generated from the optimization module by applying either a static
or dynamic rebalancing. In practice, different types of vehicles might have varied traveling capabilities besides the capacity. For
instance, the bike train applied in the Citi Bike can only handle short-distance transportation and does not allow long-distance travel

                                                                        5
