CITEKEY: jinSimulationFrameworkOptimizing2022
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/DWNF88AJ/Jin et al. - 2022 - A simulation framework for optimizing bike rebalancing and maintenance in large-scale bike-sharing s.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-024
RELATED CE IDS: CE-024
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Y. Jin et al.                                                                                Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory 115 (2022) 102422




                         Fig. 1. Proposed simulation framework for the rebalancing and maintenance optimization of BSS.




2.2. Optimization of multi-vehicle BRP

    The simulation framework proposed in this work is designed for evaluating the effect of new rebalancing strategies on the
operations of a BSS. These strategies depend on the solutions of a multi-vehicle BRP to assign routes and a sequence of operational
tasks (i.e., loading and unloading of bikes) to each vehicle. A BRP is usually modeled as a Mixed Integer Programming (MIP)
problem, which in general is NP-hard. Several heuristics have been designed to efficiently obtain high-quality solutions [8,29–33].
Other methods apply a clustering step to the stations and then solve a simpler multi-vehicle BRP for each cluster [7,19,34–36].
However, all these studies ignored the impact of broken bikes on routing and operational decisions. Fu et al. [37] used a robust
optimization approach to deal with demand uncertainty considering only the time to pick broken bikes when determining the
time between rebalances. Ren et al. [38] considered the cost of maintenance for bikes and vehicles in the depot but ignored the
occurrence of bike failures in the system. In the operation of BSSs, maintenance is performed in conjunction with bike repositioning.
Only a few works have considered the impact of maintenance in the operation of BSS. Kaspi et al. [6] considered unusable bikes
for evaluating the users’ dissatisfaction level using a Bayesian model. Wang et al. [7] and Wang et al. [39] considered broken bikes
in a BRP to minimize the 𝐶𝑂2 emission of the vehicles used for rebalancing. Luo et al. [40] considered maintenance and disposal
emissions in evaluating the life-cycle emissions of a bike sharing system, but their assumptions on the bike life-time are rather
optimistic. The model proposed by Zhang et al. [8] considered the collection of damaged bikes in minimizing the total travel cost.
The optimization models proposed in Du et al. [41] and Lu et al. [42] also considered the impact of malfunctioning bikes for a
free-floating (i.e., dockless) BSS but might not be applicable for a BSS with docked stations.
    In practice, it is valuable to assess the performance of heuristics via simulation before implementing them in the actual daily
operations of BSSs. However, most of the studies on BSS optimization have not been validated using a simulation framework, and
have failed to consider maintenance activities. The proposed simulation framework is integrated with one of such optimization
models to evaluate the performance of different rebalancing strategies. The integrated optimization model is solved by a heuristic
based on the proposed station clustering method and ACO algorithm. Although the heuristic method might not be the most advanced,
it helps us demonstrate the compatibility of the proposed simulation model. In addition, useful managerial impacts are revealed when
implementing this heuristic and other rebalancing strategies.

3. Simulation framework

3.1. Overview of the simulation framework for optimization

    The framework consists of a simulation module and an optimization module. The overview of the proposed simulation framework for
optimization is presented in Fig. 1. In the simulation module, a virtual BSS is constructed based on the given system configuration,
regarding station, rebalancing, and maintenance as shown in Table 1, to mimic the daily bike inventory/status change at each
station and the operation of the system. The basic structure of the simulated BSS have been illustrated by [9] which include three
major processes: the bike borrowing and returning, bike rebalancing, and system maintenance. In this work, the simulation module
is improved from the three perspectives with details provided in Section 3.2.

                                                                       3
