CITEKEY: nathModellingMethodsPlanning2019
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/IQP6BKAP/Nath and Rambha - 2019 - Modelling methods for planning and operation of bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 0
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 1
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-003
RELATED CE IDS: CE-003
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Modelling Methods for Planning and Operation of Bike-Sharing Systems
                                       Rito Brata Nath1 and Tarun Rambha ∗1, 2
                           1
                             Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India
      2
          Center for infrastructure, Sustainable Transportation and Urban Planning (CiSTUP), Indian Institute of Science,
                                                          Bangalore, India

                                                             Abstract

              Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) are emerging as a popular type of shared vehicle platforms where users can
          rent bicycles without having to own and maintain them. BSSs are ideal for short trips and for connecting
          to public transit systems. Bicycle usage is associated with several unique characteristics which make planning
          and operations of BSSs very different from traditional transportation modelling approaches or even car sharing
          problems. In this paper, we summarize existing literature on strategic planning which involves selecting stations,
          designing bike paths, and figuring out station capacity. Research on operational measures which include day-
          to-day and within-day repositioning activities are also collated. Additionally, models for understanding demand,
          pricing and incentives, maintenance, and other technological aspects are reviewed.

          Keywords: bike sharing; strategic planning, facility location, operational planning, repositioning



1         Introduction

Automobile usage is on the rise in many parts of the world and cities are actively promoting eco-friendly transportation
solutions to reduce traffic congestion and emissions. Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) is one such alternative which can
not only serve short-distance trips but can also enhance connectivity to public transportation networks. In a BSS,
customers can pick up and drop off cycles at specific locations or anywhere in the city depending on the type of
bikes in the system, locking technology, and payment mechanisms. Most of the current generation BSSs are either
free-floating or station-based (see Figure 1). Station-based BSSs may use both docked or geo-fenced dockless bikes.
A few examples of BSSs include Capital Bikeshare (CaBi) in Washington, D.C., Citi Bike in New York, Blue Bikes
in Boston, and Vélib’ in Paris.




               Figure 1: Docked BSS: Capital Bikeshare, US [1] (left) and Dockless BSS: Mobike, China [2] (right)


Like any other transportation system, planning and operation of BSSs require understanding the spatio-temporal
demand for cycles in a city. Demand can either be inferred from extensive surveys or past data on traveller movements
[3], [4]. This knowledge of demand can drive decisions on building dedicated bike lanes, setting up base stations [5],
and choosing between pay-per-use and subscription-type services. Supply-side aspects can also in turn influence
demand. For example, dedicated bike lanes make bike travel safer and has the potential to increase BSS usage [6],
[7], [8].
    ∗ B tarunrambha@iisc.ac.in




                                                                  1
