CITEKEY: nathModellingMethodsPlanning2019
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/IQP6BKAP/Nath and Rambha - 2019 - Modelling methods for planning and operation of bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-003
RELATED CE IDS: CE-003
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
that could be accessed using a mobile app. The smart technology-based system provided real-time information on
bike availability [19], [25]. Most BSSs in the recent past belong to the fifth generation in which dockless bikes are
used in a free-floating or station-based set up. These systems have lower setup costs and hence have grown rapidly
in many cities.
By December 2016, about a thousand cities in the world had a bike-sharing program [26]. Mobike, a dockless BSS,
is the world’s largest bike-sharing operator. As of 2018, Mobike operated in over 19 countries and 200 cities [27].
One of the large-scale station-based BSSs is the Hangzhou Public Bicycle System in China, which comprises of 2,965
stations and approximately 69,750 bicycles [28], with plans to expand to 175,000 bicycles by 2020 [29]. Bike-sharing
programs have grown exponentially in the last decade, particularly in Asia. For instance, thirteen of the world’s
fifteen largest BSSs are in China [30].
Although BSSs have been encouraged by public agencies and users around the world, service providers such as
Mobike, Ofo, and Pedl had to shut down operations in many cities due to high maintenance costs, low profits, theft,
and vandalism [31], [32], [33]. Some of the new technologies like Global Positioning System (GPS), anti-theft alerts,
and high-tech handlebars introduced in the fourth and fifth generation dockless bicycles have the potential to address
these issues to a certain extent [34], [35].




                Figure 3: Roadside dumping of bicycles in Xiamen, Fujian province, China (Source: [36])


Also, cycling is not perceived as a safe commute mode, especially in mixed traffic, and the lack of dedicated bike
lanes in most places proves to be a major hurdle for the success of BSSs. Further, while BSSs work well in controlled
environments such as office and university campuses, scaling them to a city level can be extremely challenging
especially for dockless free-floating systems. Often, bikes are left at remote locations where there is no demand,
and this affects the utilization rates of cycles. As bicycles are fairly inexpensive, service providers tend to add more
bikes to the system as a knee-jerk reaction, but the oversupply of bikes has resulted in many abandoned and broken
bicycles, especially in China (see Figure 3). These observations strongly motivate the need for planning and operating
BSSs in an efficient manner.



3    Strategic Planning

Strategic planning problems in the context of a BSS typically involve designing the bike path network and determining
the number and locations of bike stations. These decisions must consider construction costs, the effect of terrain,
customer service level (which can be measured by the coverage level, bicycle availability, and user out-of-pocket
costs), and the impact on existing automobile traffic. For instance, station location decisions must make sure that
cycles are at a convenient walking distance (roughly 300-500 m) from the actual trip origins and destinations [37].
Geographical factors are crucial not only for bike lane design, but also for locating bike stations. For example, in
Brisbane, it was observed that CityCycle users avoid returning bicycles to higher-elevation stations [38]. Stations
must also be designed such that there is enough curb-side space to account for surges in pickups and dropoffs.
A key input to these decisions is the knowledge of demand for bike sharing, which can be estimated using census
data [39], stated-preference surveys, and by observing the travel patterns of commuters who might potentially shift


                                                           3
