CITEKEY: nathModellingMethodsPlanning2019
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/IQP6BKAP/Nath and Rambha - 2019 - Modelling methods for planning and operation of bike-sharing systems.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: 621
SECTION: Abstract / Introduction
RELATED CE IDS: CE-003
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
     First                    Second                    Third                      Fourth                    Fifth
     Generation               Generation                Generation                 Generation                Generation

                                  Coin-deposit               Smart cards,             Smart Cards,
      Free bike systems,        systems, locks,            distinct bicycles,      Docking stations, E-      Dockless systems,
       distinct bicycles,    distinct bicycles, free        locks, docking         bicycles, Real-time         E-bicycles, Big
      unlocked bikes, no      of charge, docking           stations, access         availability, GPS        data management
            stations                stations                    booths                  tracking                possibilities




                                              Figure 2: Generations of BSSs
                   (Source: Midgley et al. [18], Chen et al. [19]; Picture source: [20], [21], [22], [23], [24])



For station-based BSSs, it is important to determine the capacity of each station and distribute the fleet across
stations, although these decisions can also be made at an operational level [9], [10], [11]. Within-day stochasticity
in travel patterns often leads to imbalances in the availability of bikes and parking spots. Having stations that are
full or empty can affect ridership and render the system ineffective. To address these situations, cycles are often
repositioned from one station to another using trucks [12] or by providing price incentives to users for dropping off
bikes at nearby high-demand locations [13].
When bikes are repositioned using motor vehicles, one must decide how many cycles to move between stations and
also determine optimal vehicle routes. Repositioning done during the day, in real-time, is classified as dynamic
rebalancing [14], [15], while that carried out at the end of a day, when the system is inactive, is called static
rebalancing [12], [16], [17]. Periodic maintenance of bikes, vandalism, and theft are some other common problems
faced by a service provider of a BSS.
The rest of this review article is structured as follows. In Section 2, we discuss the history of BSSs and motivate
the need for developing decision support tools for studying planning and operational problems associated with BSSs.
In Section 3, we discuss research on some of the strategic problems such as bike-lane design, station locations, and
dock size selection. Section 4 details various repositioning mechanisms that can be used when operating a BSS.
Technological aspects and some emerging phenomena are addressed in Section 5 and the conclusions of this study
are presented in Section 6.



2    Background and History

The first BSS started in Amsterdam in 1965 (White bicycle plan) with just fifty bicycles [18]. However, a month
later, all bikes were either stolen or dumped into canals. The white bicycle plan was a first-generation BSS in which
bikes were free to use. Other first-generation BSS examples include Vélos Jaunes in La Rochelle, France (1974) and
Green Bike Scheme in Cambridge, UK (1993). Since then, BSSs have undergone many changes. An infographic
of the historical development of BSSs through the years is shown in Figure 2. The second generation of BSS saw
the advent of coin deposit stations in which rides were free, but customers had to insert coins into a slot to unlock
bikes and could retrieve them once the bikes were returned. The first coin deposit bike program called Bycyklen
started in Copenhagen in 1991 [19]. In 1995, it also became the first large-scale BSS with around 1,100 bikes. This
system was still vulnerable to theft due to anonymity of users. The use of automated docked stations with registered
customers marked the beginning of the third generation of BSSs. This greatly reduced vandalism and theft issues
associated with the previous generations of BSSs. Such a system first appeared in Portsmouth University, England
(1996) and students had to pay for membership and bikes could be rented using a magnetic card. Other examples of
third generation BSSs include LE Vélo STAR in Rennes (1998), Bicing in Barcelona (2007), Cycle Hire in London
(2010), and Citi Bike in New York (2013). The fourth-generation bikes came into existence in 2005 with the Vélo’v
program in France. This system was operated by an advertising firm JCDecaux and was equipped with smart bikes


                                                                2
