CITEKEY: ravivStaticRepositioningBikesharing2013
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/UAVMV85M/Raviv et al. - 2013 - Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system models and solution approaches.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 3
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 4
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-011
RELATED CE IDS: CE-011
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
190                                                                       T. Raviv et al.


is related to the satisfaction of users in the system. It also includes other new
characteristics such as loading and unloading times within a time constrained
setting. Based on this approach we present two mixed integer linear program
(MILP) formulations, which differ from each other in their modeling choices and
underlying assumptions. On the methodological side, the above formulations are
strengthened by some valid inequalities and dominance rules that are likely to be
useful in other routing problems, especially those that are generalized by this work.
Finally, we applied our methods on a variety of large instances based on real data
and achieved small optimality gaps within a reasonable time.
   The rest of this paper is organized as follows: in ‘‘Literature review’’, we review
the literature, describe related work from several application areas and identify the
gaps that should be addressed. In ‘‘Model formulation’’, we present our modeling
approach by specifying the underlying assumptions, elaborating on the chosen
objective function, and presenting our mathematical formulations. In ‘‘Algorithmic
enhancements’’, we discuss algorithmic enhancements that are useful in solving the
mathematical models effectively. In ‘‘Numerical experiments’’, we describe our
numerical experiments, the results, and their analysis. Finally, in ‘‘Conclusions and
discussion’’, we discuss possible extensions and directions for further research.


Literature review

In this section, we first review recent studies on bike-sharing systems and in
particular on the repositioning operation in those systems. Then we discuss the
relation of the repositioning problem to classical routing and inventory/routing
problems from the literature.
   Modern bike-sharing systems have become prevalent only in the last few years;
therefore, the existing literature analyzing these systems is relatively new. There are
various interesting research questions concerning the establishment, operation and
analysis of bike-sharing systems. Indeed, some works study strategic problems, such
as Shu et al. (2010) and Lin and Yang (2011) who address the question of bike
rental stations’ capacity and locations. Others present empirical analysis, e.g.,
DeMaio (2009) and Hampshire and Marla (2011). Fricker and Gast (2012) study the
system’s behavior and the effect of various load-balancing strategies on their
performances. They conclude that in asymmetric systems, repositioning of bicycles
by trucks is necessary even when an incentive mechanism to self-balance it is put in
place. Vogel and Mattfeld (2010) present a stylized model to assess the effect of
dynamic repositioning efforts on service levels. Their model is useful for strategic
planning but is not detailed enough to support repositioning operations.
   Several approaches to modeling and optimizing the repositioning problem have
recently been developed. There are essential differences between them in the
underlying assumptions concerning the perceived system’s behavior and the
problem’s objective, as we discuss next. Benchimol et al. (2011) and Chemla et al.
(2011) address the static repositioning problem, assuming that a given target
inventory level exists for each station in the system so that the objective of the
repositioning operation is to achieve this target at minimum travel cost. The method

123
