CITEKEY: ravivStaticRepositioningBikesharing2013
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/UAVMV85M/Raviv et al. - 2013 - Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system models and solution approaches.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 8
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 9
PRINTED PAGE: 194
SECTION: Problem description
RELATED CE IDS: CE-009, CE-016
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system: models and solution approaches         195


according to whether they are incurred due to a lack of bicycles or a lack of vacant
lockers, since each type of shortage represents a different level of users’
dissatisfaction. This is a consideration, which can be incorporated in the pre-
processing step, when employing the procedure of Raviv and Kolka (2012) and is
part of our model’s input.
   Finally, note that the parameters a; L and U may be vehicle dependent (i.e., av ; Lv
and Uv ) with no change in the formulations below. Such generalization may
represent a non-homogenous fleet of vehicles, where larger vehicles, e.g., incur
higher operating costs and/or different loading and unloading times. For simplicity,
we omit this generalized notation.

Arc-indexed formulation

Our first mathematical formulation of the problem is referred to as the arc-indexed
(AI) formulation. Initially, the first term of the objective function is represented by a
sum of (discrete) convex functions, while later these functions are linearized in an
exact manner through a set of constraints. In this formulation, we assume that each
station may be visited at most once by each vehicle, although a certain station may
be visited by several vehicles. This assumption reduces the feasible solution set and
may result in inferior solutions. However, it simplifies the problem significantly so
that relatively large instances can be solved by a commercial solver. We discuss the
implications of this assumption in the numerical study section. Let us define the
following decision variables:
xijv      Binary variable which equals one if vehicle v travels directly from node i to
          node j, and zero otherwise
yijv      Number of bicycles carried on vehicle v when it travels directly from node i to
          node j. yijv is zero if the vehicle v does not travel directly from i to j
yLiv      Number of bicycles loaded onto vehicle v at node i
yUiv      Number of bicycles unloaded from vehicle v at node i
qiv       Auxiliary variables used for sub-tour elimination constraints
si        Inventory level at node i at the end of the repositioning operation
   The following parameter needs to be defined and used specifically in this
formulation:
M         An upper bound on the number of arcs in a vehicle’s tour whose length is at
          most T time units, where the vehicle visits each station at most once (M ¼ jN0 j
          is a trivial such upper bound; it may be strengthened when T is small, by
          solving a simple integer program).
       We are ready to present the AI formulation,
       (P1)—Arc-indexed (AI) formulation.
                                X                XXX
                           Min      fi ðsi Þ þ a     tij xijv                        ð1Þ
                                   i2N             i2N0 j2N0 v2V

       s.t.



                                                                                123
