CITEKEY: ravivStaticRepositioningBikesharing2013
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/UAVMV85M/Raviv et al. - 2013 - Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system models and solution approaches.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-011
RELATED CE IDS: CE-011
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
188                                                                          T. Raviv et al.


Keywords      Bike-sharing systems  Static repositioning  Pickup and delivery
problem


Introduction and problem definition

Bike-sharing systems allow people to rent a bicycle at one of the many automatic
rental stations scattered around the city, use them for a short journey and return
them at any station in the city. Recently many cities around the world established
such systems in order to encourage their citizens to use bicycles as an
environmentally sustainable and socially equitable mode of transportation, and as
a good complement to other modes of mass transit systems (mode-sharing).
   A rental station typically includes one terminal and several bicycle stands. The
terminal is a device capable of communicating with the electronic lockers, which
are attached to the bicycle stands. When a user rents a bicycle, a signal is sent to the
terminal that the locker has been vacated. A user can return a bicycle to a station
only when there is a vacant locker. All rental and return transactions are recorded
and reported in real time to a central control facility. Thus, the state of the system, in
terms of the number of bicycles and number of vacant lockers available at each
station, is known to the operator in real time. Moreover, operators of bike-sharing
systems make this information available to the users online.
   A crucial factor in the success of a bike-sharing system is its ability to meet the
fluctuating demand for bicycles at each station. In addition, the system should be
able to provide enough vacant lockers to allow the users to return the bicycles at
their destinations. Indeed, one of the main complaints heard from users of bike-
sharing systems relates to unavailability of bicycles and (even worse) unavailability
of lockers at their destination, see, e.g., Shaheen and Guzman (2011) and media
reports Brussel Nieuws (2010) and Tusia-Cohen (2012). Persistent unavailability of
bicycles and/or lockers engenders distrust among the system’s users and could
eventually lead them to abandon it.
   We measure user dissatisfaction with the system through the expected number of
shortage events. Such an event occurs when a user who wishes to rent a bicycle
arrives at an empty station or a user who wishes to return a bicycle arrives at a full
station, with no vacant lockers. In order to reduce shortages, operators of bike-
sharing systems are responsible to regularly remove bicycles from some stations and
transfer them to other stations, using a dedicated fleet of light trucks. We refer to
this activity as repositioning of bicycles. The goals of the operators are to minimize
the number of shortages incurred in the system and the fleet’s operational costs.
   Consequently, repositioning of bicycles in the system involves routing decisions
concerning the vehicles, starting from and returning to the depot, and inventory
decisions concerning bicycles in the rental stations. The latter involves determining
the number of bicycles to be removed or placed in each station on each visit of the
vehicles. Ideally, the outcome of this operation would be to meet all demand for
bicycles and vacant lockers, but this may not be possible due to demand uncertainty,
capacity constraints of the vehicles and the stations, and the inherent imbalances in
the renting and return rates at the various stations. The imbalance is sometimes


123
