CITEKEY: ravivStaticRepositioningBikesharing2013
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/UAVMV85M/Raviv et al. - 2013 - Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system models and solution approaches.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 7
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 8
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-009
RELATED CE IDS: CE-009
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
194                                                                        T. Raviv et al.


the allowed set of routes and/or limitations on the quantity of bicycles loaded/
unloaded at each station. Such limitations may result from operational consider-
ations or from computational limitations. We describe and discuss these limitations
in detail later in this section, when presenting our mathematical formulations.
Table 1 at the end of this section summarizes the capabilities and assumptions of the
formulations presented.
   In the static version of the problem studied here, repositioning is performed while
the demand for bicycles and vacant lockers is assumed to be zero. Indeed, in reality
the demand during the night is negligible. A given length of time (say, 5 h, from 1
am to 6 am every night) is allotted to the repositioning operation, and its purpose is
to improve the starting conditions (bicycle initial inventory levels at the stations) of
the next day.
   Next, we present notation that is common to all our formulations.

Notation

The static repositioning problem is described by the following sets and parameters:
N        Set of stations, indexed by i ¼ 1; . . .; jN j
N0       Set of nodes, including the stations and the depot (denoted by i ¼ 0),
         i ¼ 0; . . .; jN j
V        Set of vehicles, v ¼ 1; . . .; jV j
s0i      Number of bicycles at node i before the repositioning operation starts
ci       Number of lockers installed at station i 2 N0 , referred to as the station’s
         capacity
kv       Capacity (number of bicycles) of vehicle v 2 V
fi ðsi Þ A convex penalty function for station i 2 N, the function is defined over the
         integers si ¼ 0; . . .; ci
tij      Traveling time from station i to station j
a        Weight/scaling factor (in the objective function) of the operating costs
         relative to the penalty costs
T        Repositioning time, i.e., time allotted to the repositioning operation
L        Time required to remove a bicycle from a station and load it onto the vehicle
U        Time required to unload a bicycle from the vehicle and hook it to a locker in
         a station
   To further clarify the above notation recall that static repositioning occurs during
the night, and it starts when the quantity of bicycles at node i is s0i . Due to the
repositioning operation, a different inventory level, si , is reached at the end of it,
which determines the penalty cost. The penalty functions, fi ðsi Þ, are calculated in a
pre-processing step for every possible inventory level, i.e., from zero to the
maximum capacity of each station i.
   We suggest penalty functions fi ðsi Þ that represent the expected number of
shortages during the next working day. Note that while the model is a deterministic
mixed integer program, the stochastic nature of the demand is already incorporated
via the above definition of the fi ðÞ functions. The shortages may be weighted


123
