CITEKEY: ravivStaticRepositioningBikesharing2013
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/UAVMV85M/Raviv et al. - 2013 - Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system models and solution approaches.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: 188
SECTION: Introduction
RELATED CE IDS: CE-011, CE-019
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Static repositioning in a bike-sharing system: models and solution approaches            189


temporary, e.g., high return rate in a suburban train station during the morning and a
high renting rate during the afternoon, or persistent, e.g., relatively low return rates
in stations located on top of hills. Therefore, a new modeling approach is required;
one that will correctly represent a practical objective of the repositioning operation,
related to the users’ satisfaction with the system. Toward that we define a penalty
function, which represents the expected number of shortages at any inventory level
at each station. The use of such an objective, combined with new model
characteristics, is the essence of this paper.
    The repositioning operation can be carried out in two different modes: one is
during the night when the usage rate of the system is negligible; the other is during
the day when the status of the system is rapidly changing. We refer to the former as
the static bicycle repositioning problem (SBRP) and to the latter as the dynamic
bicycle repositioning problem (DBRP). Some operators use static repositioning,
some dynamic, and some use a combination of the two, Callé (2009).
    In this paper, we focus on the static mode of operation which benefits from a
practical advantage because it allows the repositioning fleet to travel swiftly in the
city without contributing to traffic congestion and parking problems. Static
repositioning is useful for arranging the inventory of bicycles in the system toward
the next day. When combined with dynamic repositioning, it reduces the amount of
work required in the latter mode. The static problem needs to be solved once at the
beginning of every night, based on the status of the system at that time and the
demand forecast for the next day. While the problem lies in the general domain of
vehicle routing problems, it involves some unique characteristics that require
appropriate modeling. The model we present in this paper generalizes existing
routing models from the literature, as shown in the next section.
    We formally define the SBRP as follows. The input of the problem is a set of stations,
with one designated as the depot; initial inventory, capacity, and a convex penalty
function for each station; a travel-time matrix between stations; and a set of non-
identical capacitated repositioning vehicles. A solution is defined by a route for each
vehicle and the quantity of bicycles to load or unload at each station along this route. The
planned routes must satisfy a time constraint. The length of each route is calculated as
the sum of the travel times between all pairs of consecutive stations along the route plus
the time needed for loading and unloading at the stations, which depends on the
quantities of bicycles handled. The goal is to minimize a weighted objective that consists
of the sum of the stations’ penalty costs and the total operating costs of the vehicles. This
problem definition generalizes our preliminary work, see Forma et al. (2010).
    The penalty function at each station may represent any objective of the operator,
as long as it is convex in the ending inventory of the station. We advocate the usage
of penalty functions that represent the expected number of shortages in a station
during the next day given its initial inventory, its capacity, and the stochastic
characteristics of the demand process. Raviv and Kolka (2012) present an efficient
procedure to calculate these functions and prove their convexity. For the sake of
completeness, we summarized the relevant results from their paper in Appendix A.
For more details, the reader is referred to that paper.
    The contribution of this paper is in presenting a new and practical approach to
modeling the SBRP. It involves defining a non-traditional objective function, which

                                                                                  123
