CITEKEY: wangStaticGreenRepositioning2018
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/XR2IYSMV/Wang and Szeto - 2018 - Static green repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken bikes.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 0
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 1
PRINTED PAGE: NA
SECTION: Adjacent page for CE-034
RELATED CE IDS: CE-034
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     Transportation Research Part D 65 (2018) 438–457


                                                          Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                                Transportation Research Part D
                                                journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/trd




Static green repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken
                                                                                                                                       T
bikes
Yue Wang, W.Y. Szeto
                                     ⁎

Department of Civil Engineering, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong
The University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen Institute of Research and Innovation, Shenzhen, China




ABSTRACT

Bike-Sharing Systems (BSSs) and environmental concerns have been receiving increasing popularity in transportation operations. In BSSs, the
distribution of bike demand often mismatches with bike supply and there are broken bikes. Usable bikes are needed to redistribute between stations
to satisfy the demand and all broken bikes need to be carried back to the depot for repairs. Both types of bikes are often transported by fossil-fueled
vehicles but using these vehicles for the operation may damage the environmental creditability of BSSs. A methodology is needed to mitigate the
environmental impact of this operation.
   This study aims to propose a methodology to reposition both good and broken bikes in a bike-sharing network in order to achieve a perfect
balance between bike demand and supply at each station and make sure that all broken bikes are moved back to the depot. The objective of this
repositioning operation is to minimize the total CO2 emissions of all repositioning vehicles. A Mixed Integer Linear Program (MILP) model is
presented to formulate the problem mentioned above and a commercial solver is used to solve it for small applications. Using example applications,
problem characteristics and the factors that affect the CO2 emissions are discussed. The results indicate that allowing multiple visits can reduce
vehicle emissions. Moreover, when the percentage of broken bikes in the system increases, the CO2 emissions increase. Furthermore, if there is a
tolerance for meeting the demand target, when this tolerance increases, the CO2 emissions decrease. In addition, when the distance of a link in an
optimal route increases, the resultant emissions may remain unchanged. Besides, when the vehicle capacity increases, the CO2 emissions decrease.
The real world instances of Citybike Vienna are used to compare emission and distance minimization solutions and investigate the runtime com-
plexity of the proposed model. The results demonstrate that a shorter distance may not necessarily lead to lower emissions. The results also show
that as the number of vehicles increases, the total emissions and runtime increase. A clustering method based on the nearest neighbor heuristic
together with a commercial solver is used to solve a large real-world instance. This result confirms the possibility of using the clustering approach to
reduce the running time for large network instances with multiple vehicles.




1. Introduction

    Cycling is an environment-friendly and healthy transport mode. It has received increasing attention in recent years. To encourage
cycling, many cities have introduced public BSSs such as Velib in Paris, Villo in Brussels, Citi-Bike in New York City, and Santander
Cycles in London. As of 16 September 2018, public BSSs were available in about 1780 cities (Meddin and DeMaio, 2018). In a
classical BSS, registered users can rent a bike at a bike station, ride the bike, and return it to any station. Due to the asymmetrical
distribution of bike flows, the deficient supply of both lockers and bikes often occur in these systems. The former situation leads to
extra travel distances for some bike users to find available lockers while the latter one causes unsatisfied demand. To cater to the
demands for both lockers and bikes, bike repositioning is essential.
    In general, there are two types of bike repositioning: static and dynamic. Static bike repositioning (e.g., Li et al., 2016; Cruz et al.,
2017; Ho and Szeto, 2017; Schuijbroek et al., 2017) usually focuses on the nighttime repositioning because, during that time, system


  ⁎
      Corresponding author.
      E-mail addresses: yuewhku@hku.hk (Y. Wang), ceszeto@hku.hk (W.Y. Szeto).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trd.2018.09.016

Available online 27 September 2018
1361-9209/ © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/BY-NC-ND/4.0/).
