CITEKEY: wangStaticGreenRepositioning2018
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/XR2IYSMV/Wang and Szeto - 2018 - Static green repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken bikes.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 1
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 2
PRINTED PAGE: 438
SECTION: Abstract / Introduction
RELATED CE IDS: CE-034
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Y. Wang, W.Y. Szeto                                                                             Transportation Research Part D 65 (2018) 438–457


usage and the congestion impact can be ignored. The target is to meet the demands in the next morning. Dynamic bike repositioning
concerns with the daytime situation when the system is in high usage and the demand of each station will change during the
repositioning period (e.g., Caggiani and Ottomanelli, 2012; Contardo et al., 2012; Kloimüllner et al., 2014; Ghosh et al., 2017;
Caggiani et al., 2018; Shui and Szeto, 2018). Both types of repositioning can be found in practice.
    Both types of bike repositioning are commonly performed by fossil-fueled vehicles. Using these vehicles for the operation may
damage the environmental creditability of BSSs (Wiersma, 2010) because these vehicles emit pollutants and greenhouse gases. Other
than the unmet demands for both lockers and bikes, environmental objectives should be duly considered in the repositioning op-
eration. However, in the literature, except Shui and Szeto (2018), environmental objectives are rarely considered in bike re-
positioning studies.
    Another important consideration is broken bikes. Broken bikes are regularly found in BSSs (Kaspi et al., 2016, 2017). The pre-
sence of broken bikes in the systems means not only a waste of resources but also causes user dissatisfaction. Broken bikes occupy
lockers and reduce the parking spaces for users to return bikes. Moreover, broken bikes cannot be used to satisfy bike users’ demand.
In addition, broken bikes are always transported back to depots for repairs and use up some of the capacity of repositioning vehicles
for usable bikes, making the repositioning of usable bikes less effective. It is therefore important to consider the repositioning of both
usable and broken bikes simultaneously. However, no studies, except Alvarez-Valdes et al. (2016), considered this type of re-
positioning. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, no studies simultaneously considered both broken bikes and an environmental
objective at the time of this writing.
    In this paper, we study a static green Bike Repositioning Problem (BRP) in the presence of broken bikes. This problem determines
the route and the corresponding loading or unloading instructions for each repositioning vehicle to balance a BSS with broken bikes.
The objective is to minimize the total CO2 emissions of all the vehicles. An MILP model is proposed to formulate the problem, which is
then solved using a commercial solver. Numerical experiments are carried out on small example networks to clearly illustrate the
problem characteristics and investigate the factors that affect the vehicle emissions. The real world instances of Citybike Vienna are
also used to compare emission and distance minimization solutions and investigate the runtime complexity of the proposed model. A
clustering method based on the nearest neighbor heuristic and a commercial solver is used to solve the large real-world instance with
90 stations. The computational time required and solution quality obtained by this method are also demonstrated.
    The contributions of this paper lie on the following:

1. to introduce a new and practical BRP—a static green BRP with broken bikes;
2. to present a model to formulate the problem, and;
3. to illustrate the problem properties and point out critical factors that affect vehicle emissions.

    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the literature on BRPs and fuel consumption and CO2
emission modeling. Section 3 presents a mathematical model for the studied problem. Section 4 describes the numerical studies and
discusses the results. Section 5 discusses different approaches to solving large-scale BRPs. Finally, Section 6 concludes this paper and
gives future research directions.

2. Literature review

    In this section, we will first briefly introduce the objectives used in BRPs. Moreover, we will describe how current research
addresses the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, especially the factors considered in mathematical models. Afterward, we will
discuss the literature about broken bikes and the modeling assumptions in BRPs. Finally, we will depict the existing formulation
approaches to BRPs.

2.1. Objective functions in BRPs

    User satisfaction has been commonly considered as the primary objective in BRPs. It is mainly measured by the number of due
date violations (e.g., Brinkmann et al., 2015), unsatisfied demand including both docks and bikes (e.g., Contardo et al., 2012),
penalty costs (e.g., Ho and Szeto, 2014), and so on. Repositioning costs are also considered in most studies, such as travel costs
including travel time or distance (e.g., Benchimol et al., 2011; Angeloudis et al., 2014; Dell’Amico et al., 2014, 2016; Cruz et al.,
2017), maximum tour distance (e.g., Schuijbroek et al., 2017), total travel and handling costs (e.g., Erdoğan et al., 2014), total
redistribution cost (e.g., Nair et al., 2013), and total relocation and lost user costs (e.g., Caggiani and Ottomanelli, 2012). Besides
single objective optimization, some studies considered the weighted sum of various measures, including the cost of unsatisfied
demand and the coefficient of variations of the duration of all routes (e.g, Alvarez-Valdes et al., 2016), the total absolute deviation
from the target number of bikes, the total number of loading/unloading quantities, and the overall time required for all routes (e.g.,
Di Gaspero et al., 2013, 2016; Raidl et al., 2013; Rainer-Harbach et al., 2013, 2015), total travel time and penalty cost (e.g., Ho and
Szeto, 2017), total vehicle travel cost and the expected user dissatisfaction in the system (e.g., Zhang et al., 2017), the total number of
unsatisfied customers and the vehicle’s total operational time (e.g., Szeto et al., 2016), and travel, imbalance, substitution, and
occupancy costs (e.g., Li et al., 2016). However, existing objectives have rarely considered environmental objectives. Indeed, re-
positioning operations are commonly carried out by fossil-fueled vehicles, which emit pollutants and greenhouse gases. These
emissions can damage the environmental creditability of BSSs (Wiersma, 2010). It is therefore important to capture environmental
objectives in BRPs. To the best of our knowledge, Shui and Szeto (2018) were the pioneers to capture an environmental objective in

                                                                   439
