CITEKEY: wangStaticGreenRepositioning2018
SOURCE PDF: /Users/hurunqiu/Zotero/storage/XR2IYSMV/Wang and Szeto - 2018 - Static green repositioning in bike sharing systems with broken bikes.pdf
PDF PAGE INDEX: 2
PDFTOTEXT PAGE NUMBER: 3
PRINTED PAGE: 439
SECTION: Introduction
RELATED CE IDS: CE-023, CE-030
EXTRACTION TOOL: pdftotext version 26.06.0
OCR USED: no
LINE-BREAK HYPHENATION NORMALIZED: no
------------------------------------------------------------
Y. Wang, W.Y. Szeto                                                                             Transportation Research Part D 65 (2018) 438–457


BRPs. They minimized the weighted sum of total unmet demand and the fuel and CO2 emission cost of the operating vehicle as the
objective of their study.
    One may argue that using bike-trailers for bike repositioning (e.g., Citibike in New York City) are ideal for mitigating CO2
emissions during the operation. Bike-trailers can carry 3–5 bikes at most at one time (e.g., O'Mahony and Shmoys, 2015; Ghosh and
Varakantham, 2017). They are suitable for the case where stations are close to each other, the BSS is in high usage, and traffic is at its
peak (O'Mahony and Shmoys, 2015). However, since static repositioning usually happens during nighttime, the system usage and
congestion impact can be ignored. In addition, to redistribute bikes for the demand in the next morning, the capacity of bike trailers is
far from enough, which makes the bike repositioning inefficient. Furthermore, the route length can be far beyond the capability of the
staff on bikes with trailers. It is unavoidable to use trucks to perform bike repositioning for an even medium size BSS.


2.2. Fuel consumption and CO2 emission modeling

     Other than BRPs, environmental issues have been considered in many transport studies, including those about vehicle routing
problems. Emissions can be reduced by optimizing vehicle routes. In vehicle routing problems that consider environmental objectives
(called green vehicle routing problems), CO2 emissions or an approximate measure – fuel consumption – is usually considered as the
model objective (e.g., Demir et al., 2012; Koç et al. 2014; Zhang et al., 2014; Ehmke et al., 2016; Xiao and Konak, 2016). Different
CO2 emission or fuel consumption models have been used in green vehicle routing problems. The measurable factors adopted in most
of these models mainly include vehicle speed, acceleration or deceleration, gradient, and the weight of vehicle loads for certain types
of vehicle and fuel (Scott et al., 2010; Demir et al., 2011; Suzuki, 2011; Lin et al., 2014; Zhang et al., 2015; Hosseini-Nasab and
Lotfalian, 2017). For static bike repositioning, which usually happens in urban cities during the nighttime, the speed can be treated as
constant because the congestion and vehicle flow impacts on the speed are very minor. The road gradient can be reflected in the
asymmetric distances between two nodes. In addition, emissions during waiting time can be omitted when a perfect balance is
considered because they are proportional to loading and unloading quantities and are constant in the objective function. Therefore, as
indicated in the study of Xiao et al. (2012), the fuel consumption rate can be treated as linear with respect to vehicle loads when
having the previous assumptions in static bike repositioning.
     Xiao et al. (2012) also presented a fuel consumption model in detail, which is composed of the empty-load fuel consumption rate
 0 , the full-load fuel consumption rate    , and the vehicle capacity Q0 . The full equation is given below:

                            0
         (q) =   0 +            q
                       Q0                                                                                                                   (1)

where q is the load on the vehicle. When the vehicle is empty, the vehicle has a fixed fuel consumption rate         0 , which relates to the
vehicle type and the fuel type. The term       determines the quantity of fuel consumption induced by one unit increase in the vehicle
                                                 0
                                           Q0
load. Therefore, the total fuel consumption per unit of distance is the sum of fixed consumption and additional load consumption. On
the basis of Eq. (1), Zhang et al. (2014) developed a CO2 emission model, converting the fuel consumption into emissions through a
conversion rate:

                                     0
       e (q) = CER     0 +               q   d
                                Q0                                                                                                          (2)

where CER is the CO2 emission rate and d is the travel distance with a load q .
    A similar model has also been proposed in the study of Kopfer et al. (2014), where the CO2 emissions are proportional to the fuel
consumption. Thus, the minimization of CO2 emissions and fuel consumption are equivalent. In their study, the following is adopted
as the objective function:

       F (q ) = a d + b q d                                                                                                                 (3)

where a denotes the fuel consumption per unit of distance and b denotes the fuel consumption per unit of payload and distance.


2.3. Broken bikes in BRPs

    Other than environmental objectives, another important consideration in BSSs is broken bikes. It is almost unavoidable to have
broken bikes in BSSs, due to careless use or accidents. The presence of broken bikes implies a waste of resources, as broken bikes take
up the limited lockers in a station and are unusable (Kaspi et al., 2017). The numerical results of Kaspi et al. (2017) indicate that even
a small fraction of unusable bikes can have a significant effect on user dissatisfaction. Therefore, the broken bikes need to be taken
away from stations for repairs, which certainly consumes parts of the repositioning resources that are intentionally assigned to usable
bikes. Therefore, when planning the repositioning works, broken bikes need to be considered together with usable bikes. However,
most of the existing studies do not consider broken bikes. An exception is the study by Alvarez-Valdes et al. (2016) who studied bike
repositioning with broken bikes, in which the vehicles transshipped usable bikes among stations, collected broken bikes at stations
along the tours, and dropped the broken bikes off at the depot. Nevertheless, Alvarez-Valdes et al. (2016) did not consider vehicle
emissions due to the repositioning.

                                                                   440
